okay bill Simba is an attorney and
interwar activist he's been practicing
law for 35 years now he's worked on
several important political cases he's
been in court against with the FBI and
the CIA against the FBI in a case where
two political activists were the victims
of a car bombing and against the CIA for
their involvement and contra drug
trafficking he's been involved in cases
against the bush administrations for
their civil liberties clampdown and he's
worked on cases of police shootings in
the Bay Area he's also worked more
recently to make sure votes are counted
properly in the California Democratic
primary
um he's written on political
assassinations in the 60s such as the
murders of Black Panther leaders Fred
Hampton and Mark Clark CA attempts on
the life of Fidel Castro and on the
assassination of John Kennedy about
which he's written a book called state
secret and a series of articles called
the twelve who built the oswald legend
don't thank you thank you Bill for
talking we're gonna talk tonight about
the typical we're gonna focus on that
because you you made a very very
interesting talk at the the
assassination archives and research
center conference on the Warren
Commission report in twenty twenty
fourteen so I thought we know a lot
about that I thought be interesting yeah
I'm looking forward to talking about the
tippet story quite a saga yeah it really
is do you want to do you want to give us
kind of the lay of the land and explain
the basic story to us I there's a bunch
of there's a bunch of really interesting
points that you have about you know
officer Westbrook of the Dallas Police
but uh the two wallets but maybe you can
kind of give us the the overview of
things and and then we can kind of dig
into some of the individual issues in a
nutshell the typical case has never been
properly investigated they say that
about the Kennedy case in there right
but this one is a whole nother level of
confusion I
frankly much of it is because it
happened in Dallas Dallas police are
powerful and a word cowboy then
certainly and I can't speak about him
now but I think people were genuinely
scared to even talk about the efficacy
of their investigation and the overview
I saw is that to understand the Kennedy
assassination the best place I think to
dig in is between 12:30 and 2 o'clock in
the afternoon because that's the period
where Oswald's movements and Tippit's
movies are highly content and I would
suggest there's a reason why because
what happened during that period of time
it's not nothing short of incredible
series of cases and the question that I
posed is whether or not anybody large
mistakes for at all and certainly
whether Oswald fired at this Explorer I
don't I'm willing to believe that people
pose with God I'm not convinced some but
anybody priority gun out from that court
and I'm certainly don't believe that
Oswald was one and then the drama moves
to where he lives which it was over in
Oak Cliff now if you're ever in Dallas
you take a look at the map you know we
also lived with like you know miles away
smokeless from from 6/4 but the wrinkle
is that you can get from downtown Dallas
to the Oak Cliff neighbor unless
indictment then and
because there's a big old highway boom
right from the area of big departure and
that's what's kind of crazy about it is
because there's a river called the
Trinity River that separates the Gallup
proper from the immediate suburb
sections Oakland and it's a big river
valley if you will and the way you cross
it is on a highway they really call it a
fire guy you're crossing over the water
and that's where tippet was parked did
you know that right at the end of the
viaduct as you enter into Oakland it
sticks it was parked at a conference
right at a gas station right where you
get off the viaduct and enter a clip
from okay okay so it's and for the life
of me you know this is where things
really kind of stalled in the
investigation of the assassination as
far as I'm concerned because Bill Turner
you know we just passed away recently
William Terry was an ex-fbi agent
through dope into this case the students
would happen and he worked this case and
other cases of ER cases many years worth
Jim Garrison minutes and Hoover hated he
Haley Hoover
they had a part of the ways before the
assassination Turner and death it
interviewed five people who either
worked at the gas station or lived
around that neck of the woods and they
knew and some of nantucket they knew who
the cock-block that was not the first
time he had parked his time to use it as
a lookout and that's what I believe he
was doing that day he was looking for
Oswald and in fact Joe McBride who wrote
Isaac's best book on the subject
recently interviewed tip excited where
he passed away and Typex father told the
write it
that he took father was told by a Dallas
cop reward that in fact us Tippett was
looking for Oswald laughter I mean
that's quite a bit this is before ours
what was captured before anybody knew as
I then we have wider ticket looking for
a swim so that's amazing information
now who who said that tip the was
looking for Oswald's father Tippett's
father
Tippett father told Jill the flood the
author of this incredible book one
ticket called in into the night and
McBride Center like 30 years
investigated this case and this is what
he was told from tickets phone table
before you passed away Wow ticket in
fact is looking for Oswald time City
Dock how typical inaudible there are
meet okay right now I don't think I
don't think they ever met I think it
this what happened next
in the case of mistaken identity
you know it's very fast and collusion
and plus it's worth here's what happened
that if I could take it kind of slow I
did that's the best way to do this okay
what happened next was that kippa
abruptly left the gas station and either
he never saw us we'll go by or he saw
him go by and walked it because he
pulled over a fella named Andres and he
made him stop his car and he questioned
him for a minute he ran inside the top
ten records through it I've been in that
I've chatted with the people to talk
dead and the old phone that was in there
is still there today
tipic ran inside used to both what
the first time you done and then ran out
it oswald curiously enough was seen
inside that record store earlier that
day like that morning either AA soldier
somebody looking a lot like and so
there's some kind of gang look right
here you know here's a cop was letting
in that can't only saves my phone for a
few seconds invited but that's gotten
worse than somebody might not and runs
out again in any case tip is going full
throttle and then he pulls over to the
side of tech street and a man who's
walking down the street walks over to
his [ __ ] Tippit's card and speak to but
he speaks to him through the wing window
yeah typical doesn't even roll down the
window and there's an extra policeman's
uniform shirt hanging in the car
what's that for nobody knows in any case
at some point
Tippett gets out of the car and he's
walking towards the front of the car to
come around to the man apparently but he
doesn't get any farther than the front
of the car because the man pulls out a
pistol and he shoots him one two three
times if it's on the ground he steps
over to it and delivers a coup de gras
shot to his head
I would suggest that is the mark of a
trained operative which hog world was
not he got hit all the bullets and he
got and he made sure he killed a man
with a fourth shot you know directly to
the head that's not an act of somebody
who's not anything but got cold blood
their way and the next thing that
happens he's equally fast
the man who does the shooting reloads
his pistol pawns
he gathers the shells on the graph now I
can understand maybe needing to reload I
don't know that I'd do it there you know
and let people have a better look at
okay and I certainly don't understand
why you would leave the shells the best
at it the shooting that would match the
bullets right and then he starts to run
away then tell me that did he stick the
weapon and so so there's a so now he's
sprinkled the scene with the shells that
would be the best evidence of the
killing the shooter then jogs like why
don't you people try to follow him
you're unsuccessful there's a merry
chase with lots of Dallas cops who come
on the scene and what I should point out
at this juncture is at the inception of
the cops in on the scene the first top
who lives is a fella named Kenneth coy
then employ is in plainclothes and yet
somebody no walks up to him and says I
found this at the scene and it's a wall
and the wallets got the ID of Oswald and
someone named Alex ago Corey says he has
no idea who the witness well I and I
think frankly the Cloyd was in on the
whole thing because you'll see why in a
minute just where the two wallets thing
comes in to fold delete more officers
some on the scene caused loss
argit Owens and a fellow who really
should not be on the scene at all the
fellas who's head of personnel so named
captain pinky Westbrook Westbrook had
been the head of personnel for many
years he's also in plain clothes by the
way giving orders ball and playing
course and so what security faces he had
access to all of the personnel files all
of the Dallas woods so he's in positions
of great power you know and he's also
the head of internal affairs he's the
one who decides whether somebody he's
brought up on disciplinary church well
so even just hiring firing discipline
earring you name it then and access to
people's most you know private
information he's got it all and his
second in command that month if the guy
who's recently been transferred his
department I sell it in Jerry Hill Jerry
Hill is an officer who was in the TV
business before he became a police
officer in the TV business TV television
and he was a report he knows public
relations he knows how to communicate
with the public and Jim Hill at
Westbrook are on all the feet of this
assassination Jerry Hill runs up to the
sixth floor within minutes after the
shooting and leave the one who magically
discovers the shells and the paper bags
on the sink the paper bag there's no
photograph of his paper bag at all the
shelves are cold they find a gun the gun
is cold
nobody ever tested on to see if it's
been shot recently you know all signs of
to feel that I mentioned this could like
come on Glee is I'm just done was fired
at all that day now you're talking about
the rifle
nice for the rifle because and and the
same is true with the revolvers that
they eventually found on Oswald will get
that moment but Jerry Hill blends Tom so
seen at the depository and then he's
helping West look look her shells and
he's the one who finds the shell and
he's the one who and he then he then he
and Westbrook who wind up running off to
the theater but before they get to the
theater I want to return to the scene of
the crime because they've taken a ticket
body way they've got this wallet that
appear from nowhere all the witnesses
who were right on the scene is tons of
tips to diem immediately afterwards so
they never saw a wallet so weird this
wallet comes now it came from the sky
was delivered to the sink and a fella
named pod Barrett who's still alive an
FBI guy and he was interviewed on
television not that long ago
and he says that Westbrook turned him
and said you ever heard of a guy named
Lee Oswald and then he said he ever
heard of a guy named Alex Adele and he
no and um to both those things and he's
looking through the wallet and you could
actually see the wallet it's filmed and
on television you can see Wes was pawing
through this bomb it reads Oswald Fidel
stuff but you've got this FBI man's word
for it that that's what he was told and
then we got a call
all of a sudden saying you should come
out he was here we got somebody in fear
and so they you know Westbrook take the
runs to the theater sings and he takes
charge meanwhile Jerry Hill and his
buddies until up to the thousand and
they are there to make the catch and
still they come storming to the balcony
and there's a lot of school kids up
there and there's a wild practiced but
dictates is it but
they see somebody downstairs some other
comes
Westbrook's best seeing somebody
downstairs and that's the Oswald
that we know and apparently what
happened was this this film and Johnny
brewer a shoe salesman said he saw
somebody hiding in the shadows and then
went running into the theater and then
and from the door they went into the
only place they could get into was
healthy and then the gal who was ticket
takers called the cops - Johnny Brewers
the Hat and said somebody came running
in here and so obviously you got 25
talks to hear hundred twenty-five cops
coming through just because one guy
hiding in about this or ran into a
theater I mean is that it doesn't really
make a lot of sense that they were so
certain that this was the right guy but
they work and activate it in any case
what's so strange about it
is that a couple things one is killing
all of his buddies went storming down
the balcony so fast the two of them had
sprained ankles by the time they got
down to the bottom the odd wall odd wall
meanwhile jumped up and said this is it
and allegedly pulled the revolver out of
this one was wasted okay
and you know he may have done that he
may not have done I don't I'm not sure
which way that go what I am sure if I
was a couple things one is that there's
a couple reports saying that Oswald was
taken out of balcony which is not true
he's actually taken out the front door
and there's also not a witness who for
20 25 years the men who worked in the
area that need saw as well being taken
out from pilots pilots kept in the back
and only in the night instead he learn
that agua was taken out to fun and I
think what happened was asked the
realize what was in the theater the
whole time waiting for some kind of
information wherever he was getting
information from and then their second
guy drew attention toss walls to
somebody who looked a lot like him by
you know forcing his way into the
theater without paint and being very
obvious and that's what brought the
police right and so I think there was
somebody who was a person in Oswald that
got taken out the back there's confusion
on the cops side I think they were
expecting to see house welcomed the back
and killed at that dump is he almost got
himself killed sounds yes he kept
screaming police brutality and this and
that
and he may have even pulled out the gun
himself and could be caught he punched
the officer right in the face got to a
clinch with him so we've been very hard
to kill because it was all in close
quarters now was it when it full look
were there a lot of people you know just
a lot of regular people about twenty
people in the theater and to top it off
westbrook told wonder fellas you know
okay make a list of all the people and
the finish so we can interview and the
guy promptly lost the list so we only
have like two witnesses from inside the
theater 83 other guys who work there and
two people were sitting there the guy
who worked there got in butch burrows
said he gave soul popcorn to oswald
right about one o'clock this was before
it could even got Chuck and another
fella named Jack Davis said he was sick
next Oswald
during the beginning credits of the
theater of the showing of the movie
which is at 1:15 which was right when
the with moments after I took a gut shot
so I don't think quite frankly the
tiffin Oswald was anywhere near tendency
ever I think it was somebody else and
then
attention was brought to everybody's
attention to draw the police to the
theater
now do we know no sorry sir but I was
just gonna you said 25 cops went into
the theater we know that kind of most of
the cops were supposed to have been in
Dealey Plaza but where did this whole
big gang and cops come from do we know
were they shortly after 1 o'clock
remember the assassination 12:30 they're
all come under typically after 1 o'clock
and with good reason
I mean a fellow cop has been shot dead
to them to a man and I do mean a man
with their 30 women but they'll tell you
that they were more upset by the type of
shooting they were by the Kennedy show I
mean you know it may be a national and a
world war tragedy but for them it's a
brother officer going down and I would
posit that the temperature is certainly
something that motivated the department
could do whatever they had to do to make
sure that this is the man they caught
was gonna be the man who went down for
it I mean now is no division of the cops
eyes about you know who the guilty party
at this point you know a guy who shot
their officer is the guilty party and as
far as they're concerned that guy his
eyes long and so that's the understory
yeah Apple was indicted for the tippet
murder before even good for the county
right and that's the way that Plata so
and so the worst of it here is they take
the basel right and five tops and Oswald
Jam themselves inside the car now what
do they reach inside Oswald pocket what
do they supposedly fine alone
and they lend the wallet supposedly has
again Oswald ID and Hodel I do matters
too long right and this Adele ID is very
important because it's Adele ID we
used to match with the gun the rifle by
the end side the morning to the next day
they got word from Chicago that a rifle
was purchased from a mail-order place
there they could track the mail-order
all the way to the Dallas post office
work all of a sudden they can't ever
make sure that it was actually delivered
there or does anybody ever picked it up
but you know it's a mail-order rifle
ordered under the name of al-adel and
for people like my parents this is the
final proof that Oswald was the person
who shot President and the story was
over because although you didn't have a
photo ID and you didn't have an
eyewitness you've got a mail ordered
rifle bordered in the name of the alias
of Oswald and you know the clear Alex
Adele was his alias it's clear that I
will rue the photographer and it had
some fun making up fake draft card with
photo on it which didn't exist it said
Alex Adele wanted all that was pretty
clear so things not so clear of course
it why would you carry ID like that to
an assassination and he was saying there
was there was one ID that was Oswald and
one ID that was hydel both in the wallet
right and to top it off there's now
brettly to walk one wallet that was
found at the scene supposedly and one
was it was supposedly found in his
pocket yeah now the wallet that was
supposedly found in his pocket can now
be found in the archives the wallet that
was supposedly found at the walls it was
filled at the scene of the crime has
disappeared we still have video footage
of it okay people have had a great time
trying to argue about whether it's the
same wallet or two different laws you
know and you can go either way on it but
I've been suggested like a lot of things
you know in this case it doesn't matter
which conclusion come to the important
thing if these took to walk to virtually
identical and the stories about the two
wallets are identical if they had Oswald
the Adel idea why in the world would an
assassin leave his wallet that's Christ
you know I mean it just it just it's
beggars the imagination this and why
wouldn't anybody see that it's
approximate you know instead of just
handed to a cop that is what I found
from mysterious witnesses name is not a
day just like 20 mysterious witnesses it
could have really cleared up what
happened in the theater and but the
blister was lost so we don't have this K
is based on phony evidence you know from
top to bottom so this was this wallet
was filmed by a TV crew that had shown
up at the murder of the Tipitina's that
right that's correct and then it was
shown on you know yep and that is on
youtube today
and you can see the photo examination
for yourself if you go to youtube and
see my talk line Captain Westbrook in
the picture right and everybody really
should watch that that that was a really
great talk so uh so you've got well I
mean do you feel like you feel like kind
of them finding the wallet is the end of
of the the basic scene that you want to
paint and we should go over these let's
go back and push it any way you want
okay great so the one of more
interesting things that you discussed in
your talk was just the original ID that
was given to even you know the
description that was put out for the
police to even even look for Oswalt so
do you want to you know we've heard
forever that it was someone in Dealey
Plaza had kind of seen him to the sixth
floor window but but you kind of prove
that not correct with documents from
Hoover and other people do you wanna you
want to talk about that whole the ID
yeah that this is one of the things that
got me really go
on the whole Kennedy case in terms of
writing about it
reading about it close so in fact I'm so
angry and the only other person who had
really picked up when this was Peter
Dale Scott who is a marvelous fluke in
his own right
there was an ID that was on the radio 15
minutes after Kennedy was shot and it's
on over the Dallas race and it says
scooter replied good 10 and 165 pounds
and there's a little bit more to it the
death the essential party now obviously
stuff for that they put it 5 more time
where did it come from it came from a
fella named Herbert Sawyer who was a
detective on the scene and he was
guarding the back door the posture to
make sure nobody was running out from
there without being checked first they'd
be sealed off so this 5 to 10 1:55 he
was told it by by person I said what do
you look like you're the boy's wife not
too young not too old too fast not 2/3
kind of average Lee okay what was his
name I don't know what did you do with
the math you got this statement oh I
gave them over to one of the sheriff's
and you know what sheriff no did you
ever see this man again no restore er
implicated in this case unclear maybe
yes maybe no not that important the
important thing it was crazy ID his ID
came from an unknown man it was turned
over to the ship now there's a fella who
claims to pin that unknown man and that
man is Howard Brett our gren was uh was
a pipe fitter something like that
working man and he claims to have seen
the man but the ide1 does make a phantom
to
if you go through the record even j
edgar hoover disbelieve the climatic
seamless done the ID doesn't make any
son Brandon would have been brain would
have been looking up to sixth floor okay
now maybe you saw somebody posing with a
gun maybe not but the including thing is
you know be feel toward the person five
foot ten for a hundred sixty five pounds
looking through a window and that's the
street you know you'd be lucky to even
be able to see the gun unless that's the
person today if you saw the person's
face you don't see their whole body you
don't see how tall they are you don't
you can't tell their way to wonder you
could tell is the color of their shirt
but we don't have any of that in this
description that's the person who's
wearing a white shirt he's wearing a
blue shirt but there's none of that
it's a that's a prony ID I wrote about
my project great length but frankly
Oswalt and he didn't see anybody clocked
at 755 in window no the five six ten 165
description comes from a description of
Oswald but only one that is living to
see more was a smaller guy he was five
foot nine but more importantly you know
when he would he died he waited on your
25th he would never weighed more than
hugging thirty-five like 4155 is simply
too stocky a guy frost but wait where
you do see it is you see it back in the
Soviet Union there's a very mysterious
description of Basel supposedly came
from his mother I don't believe it did
but it says 510 165 and you see this
description drifting through different
intelligence documents do you even see
it in Mexico City in one there's two
different sets of documents in Mexico
City and that's one set another set it's
completely different
this one describes Oswald is fixed for a
husky completely destroyed
completely different prescription
description yeah yeah so this part of 10
155 didn't tell us much now Wathan are
you seeing this intelligence alleging
being broadcast over the radio well I
would suggest that you know whatever
happened the story or whether it was a
real person or a fake person it got
translated in a very odd way over the
radio and and yet is really interesting
is all through the ward thing you know
they know that Oswald was described as
part of ten ones who keep are good
neighbors it was strange that the radio
was basically repeating what was in the
intelligence documents 9oz well I mean
that's more than just coincidence that's
more than just coincidence something
very strange is happening here I
personally do believe that Sawyer was in
the middle of it all so I wound up
having to leave the police department in
disgrace the correct rather than being
charged with perjury but at 5.10 165
description is in my mind completely
phony and illustrates the intelligence
fingerprints all that okay see what you
were talking about Sawyer
you've talked about Hill you've talked
about Westbrook let's start with maybe
we can talk about kind of who you see is
the core of maybe the maybe the people
in the Dallas Police who who seem to be
guiding events or know a little bit more
than they should have can we I'm not
with work for can tell yeah okay hit
those two guys well yeah I'd like to
let's talk about Westbrook because and I
especially want to hear you know what
you know more about what he went on to
do because you said that he kind of went
on to even be working with the South
Vietnamese
police kind of in a very we know the CIA
used to do training for local police
forces in the United States that kind of
became a scandal in the era of Watergate
in the church committee but we also saw
that local police would end up going
presumably with the CIA training to
places like Vietnam where they would
train the police forces of those regimes
over there so do you want to talk about
him and his background well let me start
with what I think it's a weaker argument
first which is what you just brought up
not because of any disrespect for you
but because we don't have a document
proving the PD was a liaison between the
CIA and the South Vietnamese Police
Department
this is all hearsay and so I think of
truth but I don't have a doubt so I'm
always coming wary and making that claim
oh okay
but I will say this Westbrook and Hill
whoa approached this case in very
strange way yeah
first off Lester had no business being
on the scene in the first place yeah but
most business being on the scene was i
okay I was what years old you know it is
he worked in you know the personnel be
for the internal affairs for the police
department it's not no he has no
experience being out there crime sir
yeah no he's not supposed to be doing
that work he referred to him that he was
a captain but he's not supposed to be
there so he's not wearing a uniform and
and he claims to have just been you know
caught up in effect you know he's walked
all the way from the police department
to the sixth floor and then jumped in a
car and drove through typically and then
jumped in the car and drove through here
and Hill is in the same boat
on that hill actually got to the theater
got to the departures in 20 minutes
and is like you can see them in filth
he's like leaping out of another
officer's car and running upstate and
and so it's kind of problematic why
these gentlemen are there at all bill
given answering the Westbrook Hills is
not a detective you know he's just not
he's not supposed to be in now of course
it was a chaotic thing but how did he
even know to go English you know the
initial calls that went out or saying
they thought the shots came from the
only Nazis it possible that came a
little bit later so it and he went up
there and you know and charged up you
know to the top floor with great
certainty about his approach and you can
see a picture of Hale leading out the
window shouting as the police you know
to bring the Crime Dog know and so I
think frankly Rudy claims that he found
two shells that I think that group
deferred to Hill in this little
operation here and it's entirely
possible that Hill planted the shells
and then said Luke - Luke look you know
look look at this I'll go out and called
you know comfortable and he did and then
within moments bill is screaming off and
so oppressed work off to the next screen
which you know again it's understandable
that they put themselves in leadership
roles immediately that's the thing
he'll admittedly lie to the Warren
Commission in a couple of respects he
claimed to have found an automatic
accessing and and but he didn't admit it
from 1980s when they asked and the fuse
in person who called in in the 1960s
investigation because no that wasn't me
he admitted to twenty years later when
he was no longer
he it could be a plug-in why he called
him as an automatic it's not a mistake
to be easily made at all which I took
not nice as well so the bottom line with
hill and with Westbrook is why are they
in leadership positions over and over
again on the scene when they're not
really supposed to fit and why are they
giving false information and not
admitting information like hey we found
a wallet it's fine hey Oswald small why
is me a penny and pop Eric the FBI man
was asked about this and he goes oh you
know big well Bentley called it in
Bentley was a guy who's supposed to be
found in his pocket a little bit late
and so we didn't want to you know he'd
apparently just didn't want to screw
things up well here's the most important
investigation history United States
immediately the assassination of
President Kennedy and they're kidding
about the most important evidence
whether or not there was a wallet that
was found at the crime scene and whether
or not that why I've had the idea of
Oswald in the deli in it and they were
lying about it
well when Bentley Barrett was asked a
couple years ago about definitely claim
that he founded the wallet nas ones
pocket because then I tagged along
that's just not true no I saw with my
own eyes and that wallet was at the
crime and so he had an FBI agent calling
the guy who was the heads of our guests
welcome calling in the line and then
we've got a situation where at the
theater there's a stop both with Oswald
arresting officer and Joe Jerry Hill did
the guy who winds up to three Paul Bert
and Jerry is claiming that there's a
mark on the bullet it shows that Oswalt
ride
bother to gun and shoot the officer
inside the theater and then it's again
it's the FBI who is called to testify to
the Warren Commission ago actually you
know what that's not true there is no
such mark on the bone so Jerry Hill is
live yet again got something really
fundamental to the case no about whether
or not I will try to kill and off in the
act of being apprehend so L is not
trustworthy to me at all and neither is
Westbrook but it gets me a little bit
works because at five o'clock 5:30 Jerry
Hill there on national tapes and he's
the guy who precedes you know what you
know and he's good at telling the story
so he's a trained TV reporter right and
he tells the entire story of Lee Harvey
Oswald in the Soviet Union as a defector
and then marrying this lady you know
marina a Russian woman from mint you
know he's telling this to the entire
world
hmm you know you know a beat officer
working in personnel and you know
somebody else major how did you get all
that information to these miles had it
you know at ABC and NBC and CBS
that's quite a day he says he got it
from west at about 3:30 and he tells the
story at five and then he goes to his
little church Bukit sick he pretends to
be befuddled as everybody else I mean he
just changed the course of history by
telling the world the background of the
assassin you know that background that
you know the major news agency still
were trying to catch up on a it's an
incredible story and I prompted it and I
would do any reason any but she believed
that hill was anything but a winning
player in this whole drama and I think
you the winning player before it
happened I don't think this is just
serendipity I think this is part of our
scheme to make sure that the right
person is brought don't do we know what
happened to do we know what happened to
either these guys kind of in the in the
rest of their lives I mean I know the it
sounds like that office of public
security thing is a little not very hard
do we know anything about kind of what
happened to these guys after the fact
well they certainly didn't more
disciplined crazy they did right they
certainly want punished Westbrook was
you know put in charge of trying to
figure out what happened to Jack Ruby
when in fact one of the people who was
helping hide Ruby's body in the basement
before the shooting was this guy Ken of
Croydon same guy who came up with the
wallet declined and they were there's
people who believe that Jerry Hill you
know was in the car that picked up Osmo
at 1:00 o'clock if Oswald ever if they
know assuming the hospital went back to
his home and got it you Bobby which is
the story we can told because one of the
numbers of lady gay matched the car that
Hill was there but Westbrook assured
everybody that it wasn't a Dallas police
car that was involved and now this was I
didn't do it this was when this was the
the owner of the boarding house where
Oswald live she heard them exactly but
let them never revealed that one of the
numbers of the car that supposedly took
the Basel
very cards Jerry Hill was in that he
never didn't reveal his conflict of
interest or anything like he did never
mentioned Cherry Hills man and the West
look left the forest and Lex allegedly
give up shortly afterward Jerry
stayed with the force and I had a pretty
humdrum life you know occasionally
interviewed and you know I really very
critical frankly the research community
for giving us guys into big old past
there was only a couple people who were
tough enough to try to you know get
Jerry to give interviews and Jerry did
give in a music picked occasionally and
he was very evasive you know we spent
most of his time just saying you know
what a good guy he was what good guys
were on the del in doubt sweeper but he
was very careful to not commit himself
to a lot of facts but what one of the
things that troubles me the most is the
other fella that I really looked at very
carefully this guy called back Bentley
was with hill in balcony he was one of
the guys who hurt his leg so badly
running that scared Bentley was the head
of the polygraph depart and Bentley was
a guy who had supposedly found the
wallet and Oswald's pocket which I don't
believe happen certainly betting the FBI
and then Bentley was also the guy who
interviewed Buell Frazier
twelves buddy the Texas depository about
whether Oswald had brought in a big bag
Frazier said you know the Baghdad was
very small and couldn't possibly take
all right Frazier was polygraphed that
day and apparently he got a clean slate
because he was sent home without any
charges that night so the rest of his
life
Bentley denies ever having polygraph
Frasier even though other people and the
team admitted it
and even though Frasier said I was
probably back they couldn't find any
documents about polygraph and Bentley
would never say a word about easily I
just don't remember anything about him
being polygraph to go off and Bentley I
think this was literally at that officer
I think he was lying to rest and I think
those three to me are in the core of
what happened in terms of framing Oswald
what was the threat they didn't do you I
don't know do you know about the
confessions they tried to get Frazier to
sign or threatened him with probably
that story is it's a possible it all
comes from Frazier okay you know we
don't have any documents we have a lot
of bluster about how you know Jerry will
first try to give them silent and he
threatened to punch him and fuels are
all punch you several times I'll get
good look going on before it's all
bothered oh I'll tell my father this
whole piece of the story is I think
Buell Frazier was scared and I think
then I don't know if you've ever heard
this story but I do like to tell it it's
quick Buell Frazier and Oswald didn't
have much in common one of them they did
out in comes they like to talk about
right okay they did and Buell had a
right and he had what's called an and I
broke you know allegedly had a ripe
although I don't know what's right for
look and the rightful Dick people
permission I was called an Enfield 303
what's so interesting is that at two
o'clock the afternoon the assassination
NBC picked up the story so we found a
rifle and repository and the rifle was
an empty
and that's the moment where Buell
Frasier just kind of disappeared nah he
just literally nobody knows where Buell
Frasier was between two and six o'clock
Buell says that he was with his
stepfather in the hospital just like
left the scene of the assassination and
went to visit his stepfather who he
hates
terrible boys and he was found there
with him at six o'clock that night but I
don't think he was there at two o'clock
I think he was there with his sister
shuttering saying oh my god somebody's
trying to frame me for the assassination
of the crime scene what am I gonna do
hmm
I think they talked about it for an hour
and a half and then it's just a went
across the street when the cops were
talking to Ruth Payne who regret across
the street and she engaged them in
conversation and told them her little
peaceful story she knew which wasn't
very much but she didn't tell him where
Buell was and we've never retired a
satisfactory person be aware he was been
to him 6 o'clock that evening and Ivan
Ghul was quite rightly scared for his
life
I think they made up that story quite
frankly if I'm not in a small bag they
didn't want to get caught up with no
ended Oswald he carried a gun so they
made sure if the story went so that the
bag was much too small for a rifle to
succeed hmm I guess the way that played
out so it turned out that that story got
run on Jerry Hill's old station and then
that got picked up by NBC and then
within an hour they retracted the story
mysteriously nobody knows where that
story came from and there'll be knows
how it was who truck but we all know you
can speak and see if you're keeping
hearing yourself if you listen to a full
copy of the tapes the assassination that
day you know this Enfield 303 story
disappears right out of nowhere
interesting and that's the I guess that
would be the third rifle that they heard
about because you have the Mauser that
was filled and finally the King Carter
now I'll say what well we're sitting but
some people think that they found a
Mauser on the sixth floor
I don't think they did I think they
found a man liquor the whole time I
think that there might have been some
chitchat among the officers with
personnel inside the building about the
Mauser because in fact one of the heads
of the building brought in a pastor to
show off a couple days before the
shooting so I think there might have
been been some jiggery-pokery where
people said well we found and now
they're trying to get somebody else to
say something what they knew because you
know I mean I don't think all the cops
here on the cake plane because there was
just a few bad cops and then cops are
free of course to use information they
pick up to try to get other people
caught by telling tips so I think the
Mauser story Nathan circulated simply
the city if somebody would cough up some
more information today it heard a Mauser
going to build nothing more interesting
oh okay so let you want to I mean we've
talked a lot about the to wallets but
you want to talk about how that cover up
more of them because it's interesting to
to figure out even you know nobody
talked about that other wallet for for
decades and decades and then suddenly it
appears in hostage book and in well I
guess the videos rediscovered you want
eyes do you want to talk about how this
kind of came to the front and and how
that the initial wallet got lost
quote-unquote well well that's the
problem because nobody mentioned it
so happy second book in 1995
you know I'm cynical enough to can hop
he put it in his book because he wanted
to sell books and he knew he had a piece
of dirt so he thought he didn't serve it
in there I've never really completely
known which most out of hostage other
than I don't think you were going on it
decline but I think he knew more than he
was supposed to know by his own
admission and I think he used that he
decided to relieve that little piece of
information as a way to try to indicate
himself in reap in Franklin the research
because the research community held in
very low esteem because he had lied in
the past about Oswald and his
relationship with Oswald and the fact
that he destroyed documents the day of
the assassination or the day of Oswald's
death supposedly at the order of his
boss through the dead you know
you got a note to moz Wald before the
assassination Oswald
he's gone by Oswald mrs. Oswald Mrs
Payne and said he wanted to talk to Lee
in the weeks before the assassination
and he was doing his job because you
know I was a read affected to the United
States he had been arrested in New
Orleans it made sense for them to follow
up and see what Havel was up to because
he worked this adversity most of his
people to do nothing right when he
looked at not left-wing but one thing
I've thought about is that it's not
impossible that he thought Oswald was a
right-wing or disguising some that's not
alright important
is it hot being stuck in this book and
that's when people started thinking
about this wallet story really seriously
for the first time that film had always
been around about these guys looking at
a wallet but they never considered the
wallet that important until they
realized that the wallet was allegedly
Osmos they started talking to more up
cops the cops were one talked a little
bit about what they know about the law
and an all grew like toffee over the
last 20 years long now there's one other
character that you talk about in you
briefly talk about him in your talk but
then Don Thomas another researcher had
kind of talked a little bit more and
added a really interesting wrinkle about
his station wagon being seen around
around the the scene of the tip of
shooting and I don't want to screw the
story up it's a long story but you want
to matter was the Carl Bowser story
basically you gotta keep in mind that
the guy who did the foot work on it went
on to become the mayor of Galan you can
believe that sodium West lies okay so
this is not exactly a not well document
isn't it very well done okay the way the
story goes is this that Carl Babbitt was
friends with he took in fact the story
is that Mather and typic were together
at a brief tip the come back more now
tip is assassinated 45 minutes after
Kennedy's more or less you know
somewhere between 1 1:15 in the
afternoon at 2 o'clock
a mechanic who used to be a cop right
which makes sense when you hear what is
about to happen
see this guy in a red car park near his
garage and he's looking kinda shifty you
know there's no reason for him either so
he walks up to him to try to talk to him
and the guy drives away and because he
drove away so suddenly he wrote down his
place in the Camden and then Wes y
reporter comes mayor talks to this
mechanic used to be a cop and the
mechanic cop turns over the plates of
West LA and West was that doesn't run on
the plates and the maid comes out to be
Valores talk which is kind of strange
because madness goes blue car not a good
but apparently the plates got taken off
and put on this way and to top it off is
a fella who the mechanic top who called
in the plates and I'll tell you right
now if you ask me who that guy was
driving the car I'd say with Leon's
walks but it was bad because that's
impossible he was under arrest at that
point I was writing the time I was well
got arrested the story goes that
mattered lent his car or his plates at
least to somebody who was like an Oswald
kind of double it's remarkable that they
got the plates and matter what was
deeper in the story because now tipped
again Mathers and his wife go to tip it
home and they are the ones this comfort
and this is tipping and to make it even
stranger mrs. Mather goes off and leaves
mr. matter with the grieving widow and
the thinking is is that this
your mother was needed to handle the
poor distraught widow Wow
mrs. Mathur went off here with stuff who
ever heard of the husband being the one
who's staying come to be widowed it's
not usually women company women not
great kind of thing so it's kind of
strange just to put it mildly and it
gets a little stranger when you think
about where Mathur worked which was a
Collins radio towns radio was deeply
intelligence connected in fact they were
the shot that made the radios that were
used by CIN college radio has a long
military intelligence connection so Carl
Mather is the first in of interest and
there's some we're going to see a few
documents hopefully this year about the
Carl Bowser story I believe he was given
immunity in order to talk to the Select
Committee for the transitions of law so
we may learn a little bit more about
that in October but the car battery
story is back and those have been held
back for documents that yeah yeah
interview with Matt I can help that so I
just a little bit to see it in October I
don't know how much will really be on
maybe a little bit more that's
interesting and west wise right up the
west wise it never let go extort but
after he became mayor of Dallas he just
stopped beating the bushes the way he
did in the years past and I think it was
because he felt hopeless his way I heard
it secondhand he just felt like nobody
was really interested getting to the
bottom of the case among those in
authority who had powers so they would I
left it to the citizens of the research
community to piece together all these
jigsaw piece together the last 50 odd
years and when was he married just a
curiosity 97 okay
okay absolutely
are you still good to talk a little more
okay if we if we talk about I know when
you were when you made your talk the
first question was what was the the
motive for that typically and I know
that I just want to get your thoughts I
know and Joseph McBride's book I haven't
read the book I've heard him talk he was
saying that you know he heard word that
typically have been involved in
narcotics trafficking I wonder if we can
talk a little bit about tippet himself
what you know and then you know what
kind of this is something I feel like
you probably know about because you've
worked a lot on police cases and see a
corruption cases but you know what was
kind of the scene of the Dallas Police
Department
look what corrupting influences were
there what we know Dallas was a kind of
a horribly racist town I heard something
that only 1% of the african-americans in
Dallas were registered to vote even in
1963 what were some of the forces at
play kind of within the Dallas Police
and maybe with tippet being involved in
same underworld as maybe not directly
but as Jack Ruby was part of just kind
of the underworld of biology how that
interacted with the Dallas Police
Department well it's funny
Kenneth croix the cop the dirty cop I
talked about earlier who found the
wallet suppose he supposedly during the
mo moments between Kennedy's
assassination and the tipis escalation
that our he was having lunch with his
estranged wife place called Austin
barbecue which was a known place with
aperture crackers and the Klan crack and
tippet worked security there even
moonlighted there so he was familiar
with that milieu certainly and I don't
know anything about narcotics stuff I
don't know whether he was a clean cop or
a dirty cop I think he was a right-wing
top
what it's worth I don't know that he was
in on the hit or not I'm not I'm not at
this point in casting any aspersions on
tipet's character my thinking and this
is just my thinking is that I think
typical was supposed to God I say no
some people and I thought about it it
might have been a busted up operation
and they have today they wound up
killing because things have gone wrong
okay but in any case the net effect of
the Tipton assassination as I said
earlier was to pull 100% of the cops to
be 100% in terms of bringing down Oswald
by any means ferret out the cop is now
dead and and if really heighten the
contradictions and made it already
incredibly crazy situation ten times
crazier so I that's my thinking is that
I don't know typical is a good cop or
bad cop but I my personal hunch is that
he was doomed to die you are going to do
in Houston in November you're going to
be part of the mock trials all right
yeah Larry shaft and I are going to do
like the what I call the forensic
evidence we're gonna jam the bullet
Michele's rifle all the minutiae a and
silhouette there's also a during these
laws in Catholicism and Bob Nandanam who
was one of the HSE a attorneys they're
going to do their piece of the case they
were involved on the autopsy which is
you know a big subject also covers a lot
of ground and will be up against
prosecutors Notre Dame and we got a
Texas judge and the Notre Dame
prosecutors very motivated with his dad
actually met Kennedy did that night
before his assassination Fort Worth and
or in Houston and will be doing this in
Houston so somewhere out there is where
they met
and so it's always been a big thing in
their family and we're all pleased to be
working together and at the same time
we'll be trying to really treat this as
a very serious enterprise in terms of
making sure we get the evidence right by
my home frankly is it will be able to
convert the prosecutor in the judge but
on this case ago I don't think anybody
no only in the last 20 years that we had
enough access to the evidence this show
just helped phoney ages predecessors in
researching this case didn't have the
access to the massive amount of
documents we have now thanks to the
altar stone right in case your listeners
don't know when the Oliver Stone movie
got released Congress was so outraged
and that and the public was so outraged
they wrote Congressman the Congress
released like 6 million pages of
documents have been withheld for decades
on this case so we know a heck of a lot
more about this case when he didn't I
take 91 which is when the movie came out
and even the even the the files from the
House Select Committee I guess which was
kind of initially those had all been
even put aside for 450 years old that's
right
it was it was a travesty every time you
did an investigation all you were doing
was preventing the public and
investigators from seeing the most
important problems and kind of I guess
that would be the opposite of the I
guess looking back the Warren Commission
probably felt they made a huge mistake
by releasing the volumes and so that's
the exact opposite of what they did
right for the HSE a they kept them
although it's funny they did 12 volumes
to the HSBA
as well but i think you're right i think
they regret it release no body at the
end of the day they were in between a
rock and a hard place they had to do
something to keep people quiet Allen
Dulles was thinking was you know what's
given written documents nobody in this
country reads anyway and you know tell
you Allen Dulles wasn't
far from wrong you know I mean it is I
am somebody who does love degree and
most people don't consider this kind of
reading the priority right is there
anything else that you wanna that you
want to add on to what we talked about
about the tip occasion is there anything
we didn't know I think we did it I think
you did a pretty good job covering it I
know there's no reason to go into the
minutiae I think we hit the broad
strokes I don't think that people want
to be dragged into the weeds I want to
keep the broad highlights in everybody
mind you know to walk through Basel we
found at the scene one you know
supposedly at the murder scene of tippet
and the other at the theater that
doesn't make a lick of sense and why in
the world would he carry Oswald and
Adele cards if he was going to deny
killing suspect and of course the Adele
card was absolutely essential because
the rifle that killed the president was
bordered under the name of Adele why
would you create a paper trail to
connected you to the assassination of
the president and then denied instead of
taking credit in front of the whole war
doesn't make a lick of sense unless
you're being so and the same is true
with the death of tip you know he denied
having anything to do with the death
detective just like he denied having to
do with the death of Kennedy and I think
he told the truth well I mean there
seems to be no obvious escape plan for
him right there was no not much money in
the wallet - no no no yeah and he didn't
have a bus ticket now in the question
did 90 $54 question was why did he go
here and I don't think he wasn't here to
hide although that's a possibility I
think he went to the theater because
he's supposed to meet somebody
and in fact you know he had to he had a
half of a card
of the place where his mother were it
Cox was in Fort Worth he had half of the
card in the possession and I think he's
supposed to meet somebody who had the
other half
that's an old tradecraft thing I thought
what always wanted to be a spy whether
he was it there's another thing but he
wanted to be a spy I think he thought of
himself as a spy and who would be spying
for it you know one of the great
questions but I think he thought that he
was working with you know the US
government well he was FBI know
oh when I was CIA definitely much matter
that's what he thought he was him he
thought I think he thought he was
healthy and I think when he ran to the
theater he was trying to find his
contact who he was supposed to meet and
in terms of any emergency and try to get
some guidance and to surgery I mean your
best sense of his role is basically just
the absolute Patsy he was he was yeah I
think you've absolutely
we got completely set up you know why in
the world would he be sticking around at
lunch time you know and why in the world
would he run home to get his involved
you know I mean what kind of operation
is back like you've killed the president
run home and get your gun that's a
little late and we leave the rifle that
ties you and not even throw away the ID
the Kaiser I mean it's none of it makes
any sense I think he when you read the
descriptions of his reaction is the
evidence started dropping in on him
throughout the day he gets more and more
and more passion and less and less and
less cocky right ya know some of those
photos of him are pretty heartbreaking
after you kind of see ya a beginning
he's very good he's very yeah you
thought I've been on my right am i right
then he realizes they grabbed and cut
out the mother
all right well it was a there was in one
of those speeches by Fidel Castro where
he he talks about Oswald
you know he makes a point that if you do
something like this you either have a
plan to escape and you're not if you're
not going to admit it you have a plan to
escape or if you do it because you're a
fanatic you're going to say yes of
course I did it so Oswald is definitely
a hated [ __ ] that right he didn't
either that's the tip-off it doesn't
make a lick of sense unless you've been
set up um cool well I think that uh
that's a good place good place the end
yeah no I uh you know we're all looking
for it I know there's a lot of people
talking about the mock trial so good
luck with that and and thank you for
talking my pleasure it's really great to
you know share one's thinking on it at
the case this important and how it
affects American history and how I think
you know the decades to come
we're going to put a resolution on it
and a good way well I hope so it's
definitely definitely about time for
them oh great well thanks a lot bill I
hope that I hope that we can we can talk
again before you take care bye bye